---
layout: post
title: "15 things I wish I knew before I turned twenty"
description: "Like every major milestone in life, whether it is getting a new job, losing a love one or in this case my 20th birthday you do often reflect on where you are in that very moment and wonder how you got there. Like I said my 20th birthday is soon, as in the next couple of months. I won’t give the exact date as the last time I did that I got, if I remember right 242 “Happy birthday’s”. Which was sweet and all but the terrible thing was, I am often too nice for my own good. I felt obliged to thank each individual person, which took hours. So with that I move onto the purpose of this piece. He learn every day, a new epiphany if you will.  A day without learning is a day wasted if you ask me, but saying that some things stay with you more than most. So on this quite Tuesday evening I write this  list of fifteen things I wish I knew before I turned twenty. I could have come up with twenty but I didn’t see the point in writing an extra five just for the sake of it and wasting everybody’s time. I am writing these down as they come into my head as I feel that will bring out the lessons that mean the most to me. So with that I give you the first thing I wish I knew."
modified: 2015-08-11
tags: [Lists]
image:
  feature: /posts/ben-white-148430.jpg
  credit: Ben White
  creditlink: https://unsplash.com/photos/mO9vKbG5csg?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText
---

Like every major milestone in life, whether it is getting a new job, losing a love one or in this case my 20th birthday you do often reflect on where you are in that very moment and wonder how you got there. Like I said my 20th birthday is soon, as in the next couple of months. I won’t give the exact date as the last time I did that I got, if I remember right 242 “Happy birthday’s”. Which was sweet and all but the terrible thing was, I am often too nice for my own good. I felt obliged to thank each individual person, which took hours. So with that I move onto the purpose of this piece. He learn every day, a new epiphany if you will.  A day without learning is a day wasted if you ask me, but saying that some things stay with you more than most. So on this quite Tuesday evening I write this  list of fifteen things I wish I knew before I turned twenty. I could have come up with twenty but I didn’t see the point in writing an extra five just for the sake of it and wasting everybody’s time. I am writing these down as they come into my head as I feel that will bring out the lessons that mean the most to me. So with that I give you the first thing I wish I knew.

1. For anything creative whether it is a speech, a photo, a painting or an article in this case it has to come from the heart for the message to carry. That does not mean it has to be personal it just means the topic has to mean something to the creator. If not the audience will sense it and the piece will have little effect on others.

2. Did anybody else’s boss, mother or partner ever tell you to write a “to do list”? If so there is a reason for that. They work. To do lists keep you focused on what needs to be done and keep you focused on the task at hand. A constant reminder in the back of your mind. They are an absolute pain but I guarantee you anybody who is successful, no matter the field have one.

3. It sounds a little silly at first but it is actually one of the great hidden truths of the modern society that we live in. A society where we are all so obsessed with material goods. The lesson is “It’s not what we get that makes us happy, it’s who we become” Focusing on been the best version of yourself is one of the most fulfilling feelings in the world. You will get so much more joy from becoming for example a better public speaker than you ever will from buying those shoes you have convinced yourself you need. Knowing you are becoming the BEST version of yourself is the BEST feeling in the world.

4. A positive attitude will lead to both positive results and a positive life. No matter what happens to you, it is important to find the positives. Why? Because self-pity is very destructive. It destroys everything around it except itself.

5. You will achieve nothing without intent. Yes the discovery of penicillin for example was initially an accident. But Ernest Duchesne, the French physician was studying micro-organisms at the time. Intention will not always get you what you want, it takes so much more. But without intention or a goal, desire and motivation will get you nowhere.

6. If you think somebody hates you for no reason you’re lying to yourself. The chances are they have strong emotions towards you. This emotion is more than likely jealousy whether it is your money, friends or any other factor really. Failing that you did something to really annoy them and you just don’t realise it.

7. People who put there whole social lives on facebook and other social media sites have low self-esteem and are lacking the attention they need from their friends and family around them. Yes many of us work on our personal brands and talk about music, current events and in my case sports. Sadly many of us feel the need to put of seven snapchats of ourselves and our friend having an Ice-cream.

8. It is important to think for yourself. It is so easy to get drawn into who the better politician is by listening to the news or just assuming your friend is right without hearing the other side of the story. They say there are two sides to every story. This is not true. There is actually at least three. What everybody around you is saying and most importantly what that brain inside your head is telling you. More often or not the truth lies somewhere in the middle.
9. It is men and in particular white men who are never discriminated against…. With one exception. Spare a thought for the small man. We live in a society where it is okay for woman to turn down men because they are too small but men are pigs if they turn down a woman for example being too big. Even though in most cases it is possible to lose weight but impossible to gain height.

10. There will always be somebody who thinks they know better and you guessed it most of the time they don’t. We all know somebody who makes claims to have the ability of the world on their shoulders. You got an A is all seven of your exam’s? Well according to them they got eight and if you can prove otherwise they will come up with an excuse or some biased reason to why they didn’t. Ignore these people.

11. There will always be that person who is nice to your face, but the second you turn around they will complain more than I mother who claims she gets no help around the house. People who do this, hide their feelings in the shadows, why? Because they are stuck behind others. They are so threatened my others they look for any cowardly way to tear down others. Would it not be great to live in a world where we all said what we thought?

12. The only two things you are competing against are yourself and time. With yourself it is the constant battle of trying to be better than you were yesterday. Don’t worry about where others are. Focus on yourself and you will catch up in no time. Saying that you need to do it now because as you kill time, time is killing you. Unlike money you cannot trade time, you can’t save time you can only lose it. By wasting time you are making a conscious decision to shorten your own lifespan. Surly you deserve better.

13. It’s not always the people you have the most in common with that you get on with best. This is one I find impossible to explain, but it’s just a fact of life.

14. Loving what you do for a career really makes all the difference to your happiness. It is one of the reasons many of us look back on school with a sense of hatred. For some it was maths, others English. Whatever it was everybody had at least one subject they hated with a passion but had to struggle on with for years. People do the exact same to themselves when they follow a career path because they want money or their parents forced them. You will never reach the top of something you hate, because you won’t put in the work to get there. It would be stupid if you did. So follow your heart and figure out how to make money out of it.

15. Time is not a healer of all wounds but it is the teacher of lessons. The idea that bad memories will just disappear is a lie. Negative experiences will stay with you, but you learn from them and move on.  Despite that some things will never leave you but it is those experiences that make you stronger and more prepared the next time.
