---
layout: post
title: "What It’s Like To Go Back In Time"
description: "Like so many others have at some stage in their lives I suffered from a feeling of isolation, uncertainty and straight up confusion about where I was going and more importantly where I wanted to go. Regrettably I suffered a lot of this in silence during those summer months not even telling the people I held closest fearing I would become a pain or be seen as weak. In many ways I guess I was fooling myself. I remember I would go to work and as soon as I punched out I would go to the gym or do an activity I thought would not result In me having to interact with others if I didn’t want to which I usually didn’t. Looking back it just screams red flag that I was thinking that, but I ignored it. I couldn’t be less macho if I tried. I will be the first to admit that. So the idea of saying “something is really wrong” and this is not just a bad day was simply unthinkable. I felt whatever credibility I had as a guy would have evaporated as quickly as a puddle on a hot Spanish summer’s day.  So I put on the happy face."
modified: 2016-04-09
tags: [Psychology and mood]
image:
  feature: /posts/murray-campbell-29990.jpg
  credit: Murray Campbell
  creditlink: https://unsplash.com/photos/B_TdfGFuGwA?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText
---

As I start this article it is the 6^th of April 2016. So it is just over 16 months ago that I made the conscious decision that “change was needed” in my life.  As cheesy as it sounds yes it was a New Year’s resolution and a massive of that. The six months before the New Year going into 2015 were by far the toughest of my life. It was a period of great change. I finished school, adapted to new living arrangements, started a new job, embraced photography for the wonderful art form that it is, worried about getting into University, got  into University and then did my best to adapt a whole new way of life.

Like so many others have at some stage in their lives I suffered from a feeling of isolation, uncertainty and straight up confusion about where I was going and more importantly where I wanted to go. Regrettably I suffered a lot of this in silence during those summer months not even telling the people I held closest fearing I would become a pain or be seen as weak. In many ways I guess I was fooling myself. I remember I would go to work and as soon as I punched out I would go to the gym or do an activity I thought would not result In me having to interact with others if I didn’t want to which I usually didn’t. Looking back it just screams red flag that I was thinking that, but I ignored it. I couldn’t be less macho if I tried. I will be the first to admit that. So the idea of saying “something is really wrong” and this is not just a bad day was simply unthinkable. I felt whatever credibility I had as a guy would have evaporated as quickly as a puddle on a hot Spanish summer’s day.  So I put on the happy face.

Unfortunately bottling all this up this led to me becoming a very irritable person. I found it very hard to open myself up to anybody about anything. I couldn’t take a joke. I was extremely stressed out or as a chiropractor might say my knots had knots. I was a pot waiting to boil over. This pot did eventually boil over just as I started college and as my social circle was thrown upside down and back around again. The last few months of that year was a period and really the only time in my life where my emotions got the better of me, not just every now and then but a regular basis. I could see I needed to make changes in my life and in those last few months I did my best to figure out as much as I could. But it was really only when I got to my holidays for the New Year that I had the time to properly reflect. It was during those few weeks I realised what I needed to do to be happy again and how I was going to do it. I think eventually most people get to the point where they are sick and tired or been sick and tired and just been unhappy. Thankfully I can report that as I write this article I am as satisfied with my life and where I am for as long as I can remember. I guess it would be nearly impossible to write this if that was not the case. How I did that is a story for another day.

What I want to focus on is a moment that happened to me only a few days ago. About a month after I made the decision that I needed to completely change my life because I was honestly ashamed of where I was  I decided the next step was to get a fresh start online. With the exception of Twitter I made a new account on every social media site. Including Facebook which is what this article is about. A few days ago I logged back into that account. The Facebook account I had not logged into for just over 14 months. What I found was somehow fascinating, terrifying and funny at the same time. I felt I was looking at the account of a dead person. A similar feeling to finding a dairy of an old relative or something along those lines. Why was this? I honestly didn’t recognise myself.

First of all it was an a proud moment because I soon realised how much I have changed for the better in the last 14 months and even further back to nearly two years ago when I started having these issues. For anybody who uses Facebook you will know that most people chat with their friends individually and in group chats. They like pages of their favourite bands, actors and sports stars. They are in different groups with both friends and strangers who share similar interests and finally they may even have their own Facebook like page. Looking at an account with no activity for so long was like taking a snapshot of my life and a part of my history or for the use of a better metaphor a time capsule.

The first thing I did was look at my new account while still logged into my old one and compare the mutual friends. In just 14 months between me not adding people to my new account and not having the people that have come into my life since the change. For the purpose of this piece I realised I had 770 friends on my new account but only 429 mutual. That’s a 341 people swing. In just 14 months. While nobody could possibly expect to be close to anywhere near that figure of people it just showed how quickly what and who we call a friend or at least a bare minimum the people we associate  with  changes so rapidly before our very eyes.

If I needed any further evidence of my last point I found it looking at my old messages. I looked at the last 10 people I had messaged and realised I had only had, had contact with 5 of them in the last 6 months. Even within that there were two that I only run into in passing. So what does that suggest? Does it say I can’t hold a friendship for 14 months or longer? I don’t think so. I think it shows growth. We all grow and again don’t even realise its happening. One of the last conversations I had was with a “friend” and it was about me freaking out worrying about presenting a project in front in my  class. This is despite the fact it was not for another few weeks. It made me laugh because while presenting or public speaking is not something I seek out it is a fear I have gotten over.

I want to point out this is not a piece to say how great I think I am or how much I have improved it is a piece to  show how much can change in such a short space of time. You may have noticed a few lines back I said “friend” and not friend. That is because I don’t talk to that person anymore. It’s crazy to think that the person I went to then to express how stressed out I was I don’t speak to anymore. It turns out they were not much of a friend after all. There is a meme I come across every now that goes along the lines of “Isn’t it funny that a year ago somebody that you thought would always be part of your life is gone while somebody you called a stranger is now one of your best friends” That meme was true and it was staring at me in black and white. It is a terrifying thought to think we will be able to say the same again this time next year.

Now I could repeat myself and talk about how I had a similar experience looking at my old timeline and groups and so on but I won’t do that. What I will do is give a summary of what I learned from the experience of going back in time by looking at my old Facebook page. I learned that even from the darkest places we can become happy again. After all stars cannot shine without darkness. Sometimes as your mood or a talent gradually improves we don’t notice the differences and it is easy to think were not moving forward and growing. But we do. As Les Brown once said “what you are experiencing now has not come to stay it has come to pass” For that reason I do believe it is a good thing to look back sometimes as it can show you how far you have come and that you can do it again.
Also nobody can predict the future. Something as an economics student I struggle to accept. But we can’t. We can control our attitude to the world, we can control the decisions we make, we can make plans and dreams for the future. But what about the future we can’t control? We can’t control the decisions others make, we can't control how people can change overnight and we most certainly cannot control the intentions that others have for us. That may sound like a horrible thing but in reality it’s a blessing. Because it is the darker moments that make you appreciate things fully when they are good. They give the white its greyish shade and without them there would be no way to grow. Failure, disappointment and I would go as far to say depression are the greatest teachers anyone can have. I learned the secret to happiness in gratitude and it is impossible to feel truly grateful for something if you have never had to do without it. I am grateful to be happy, I’m grateful to be here writing this and I’m grateful for life itself. That’s a pretty cool place to be. If I had not hard the dark 6 months that I did I know I would not be as happy as I am today.

So for anybody having a rough time, it may be a week, it may be  a month or even a year but things will get better if you make a conscious effort to make it sob but it won't just happen. My Facebook account is proof of it and I really hope this snapshot of my story will help you think the same.

Quitters never win and winners never quit.
